# Pass-Inator
## A pure Python Simple password generator for creating secure passwords.
This tool is designed to allow you to create easy to remember passwords while still being relativly secure. Perfect for home lab services that you access frequently but still want to be secure.

**Plase Note! This tool is not intented for creating highly secure passwords**</br>
I am not a cryptograper, the passwords generated by this tool are relativly secure as far as I can tell, but it should not be used to create passwords for sensitive accounts. Consult a cyber security expert and/or use a trusted password management software.

# Usage
The password generation is handled by a class `Generator` </br>
```
>>password = Generator()
```
there are 2 functions for generating passwords, `generate_passphrase()` and `generate_password()`. As the names imply `generate_passphrase()` will generate a series of English words, while `generate_password()` will generate a series of random characters. Both can be very secure, however passphrases are often easier to remember.
</br>
Both of these functions have properties you can customize to increase or decrease the complexity.
</br>
Many of these properties look for a list of 2 integers representing the minimum and maximum values for randimization, if you wish to disable the randomization pass a list of your desired entry twice Ex. ` [2, 2] ` will result in 2 always being selected. All of these properties have default values so you don't have to modify any of them to start generating passwords.

## Passphrase Parameters
| Property | Expected Value | Default Value | Description |
| -------- | -------------- | ------------- | ----------- |
| number_of_words | ` [min, max] ` | ` [2, 2] ` | How many english words should be used in the password. |
| numbers | ` [min, max] ` | ` [1, 2] ` | How many numbers between 0-9 should be included in the passsword. |
| min_word_length | ` int ` | ` 3 ` | Minimum length for the english words used in the password. |
| max_word_length | ` int ` | ` 5 ` | Maximum length for the english words used in the password. |
| number_of_symbols | ` [min, max] ` | ` [0, 1] ` | How many numbers should be included in the password. |
| use_symbol_chars | ` bool ` | ` False ` | Should some letters be replaced with like symbols, Ex. a = @. |
| casing_style | single, CamelCase, none | ` single ` | Style of word captilization. Single will capitalize only the first word, CamelCase will capitlize the first letter of each word, none will not capitalize anything. |

## Password Parameters
| Property | Expected Value | Default Value | Description |
| -------- | -------------- | ------------- | ----------- |
| password_length | `int` | `6` | How many chars the password will contain |
| useLowerLetters | `bool` | `True` | Password may contian Lowercase Letters |
| useUpperLetters | `bool` | `True` | Password may contian Uppercase Letters |
| useSymbols | `bool` | `True` | Password may contain Symbols |
| useNumbers | `bool` | `True` | Password main contain Numbers |


When the class is called the min/max word length is applied to the database of 58,000 English words to generate a list of possible words. If you wish to apply different limits to the list later in the program you can use the ` reset_word_list() ` function to reset the current word list to the whole 58,000 words.

# Main Functions

## `generate_passphrase(words_url: str)`
Once you've called the class you can start generating passwords or passphrases right away. Calling `password.generate_passphrase()`, this will return a dictonary with all of the elements of the password including the generated password.
The optional argument allows you to pull a custom word list. If the argument is not present the default value is for the word list in this repo containing 58,000 English words.

```
>>from passInator import Generator
>>password = Generator()
>>print(password.generate_passphrase())
>>{'result': 'RoverDu+y83', 'words': ['Rover', 'Du+y'], 'words_plain': ['rover', 'duty'], 'numbers': [8, 3]}
```

If you set the optional argument simpleOutput to ` True ` then the function will only return the resulting password.

## `generate_password()`
This function will generate a password made up of random characters and numbers. These passwords will be more secure than passphrases but will be more difficult to memorize.
```
>>from passInator import Generator
>>password = Generator()
>>print(password.generate_password())
>>2QusaF
```

## `set_strength(strength)`
If you don't want to edit all of the pasword properties yourself you can use the ` set_strength() ` function to select from some pre-configured presets. Currently recognized valus are high, medium, and low. Note that this function currently does not effect the settings for passwords only passphrases.

# Other Functions
If your using a class instance to repeatedly generate passwords there are some functions to help work with the word database and do custom filtering.

## `filter_length(min_length, max_length=None)`
This function will limit the current list of words to words to words with at least ` min_length ` characters. ` max_length ` is an optional argument, if not provided the max length will be unlimited.

## `filter_letters(exclude=None, included=None)`
This function will take the current word list and filter by the `exclude` and `include` arguments. Both arguments are optional but at least one must be present for the function to work properly. The lists should include one character per index and be all lowercase. The function will return the number of words left in the database after the filter action.
```
>>password.filter_letters(exclude=['a', 'b'])
>>10794
```

## `filter_left_hand()`
This function will enable the `left_hand_mode` property which filters all words, letters and symbols to those which can be typed exclusivly with the left hand.

## `reset_word_list()`
This funciton will reset the current word list to the original source. This can be useful if you're generate multiple passwords within the same script and you want to use different settings for each. It will also bypass the `min_word_length` and `max_word_length` properties set when initiating the class so you'll have to call ` filter_length() ` again to re-apply them.

## `upload_settings(settings: dict)`
This function allows you to input a dict containing a selection of password settings in one go, your dict can contain any of the parameters listed above as the key, and the new value to be applied as the value. Each propertie value should match the formatting shown in the properties table above. If you pass any keys that are not valid properties they will be ignored.
```
{
	"number_of_words": [{int: min occurances}, {int: max occurances}],
	"numbers": [{int: min occurances}, {int: max occurances}],
	"min_word_length": {int},
	"max_word_length": {int},
	"number_of_symbols": [{int: min occurances}, {int: max occurances}],
	"use_symbol_chars": {bool},
	"casing_style": {str},
	"left_hand_mode": {bool},
	"password_length": {int},
	"useLowerLetters": {bool},
	"useUpperLetters": {bool},
	"useSymbols": {bool},
	"useNumbers": {bool}
}
```

## ToDO List
 - Revamp parameter system to allow for automatic detection of lists vs ints
 - Add random capitalization option to `casing_style` parameter
